---
category: blog
layout: post
published: true
title: Sola Fide
date: '2016-10-26'
---
_...and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God that depends on faith. (Phil 3:9)_

This coming Sunday we celebrate the 499th anniversary of the Reformation, for on October 31st (Monday this year), 1517, Martin Luther nailed his famous 95 theses on the church door in Wittenberg, decrying the practices of Roman Catholic Church that he felt had fallen away from Scripture. In many respects, the main theme of the Reformation could be this idea of sola fide: "faith alone." That is, we are saved by faith, which itself is a gift of God's grace. This is contrary to the idea that any works we may do can save us, or that belonging to some system or societal structure will save us. We are justified--that is made right before God--by faith alone!

Luther, of course, didn't conjure up this notion on his own. As you see from above, this is straight out of Scripture. The doctrine of "faith alone" is one to hold on to until the grave, my friends. Because the only question that matters is this: "How will God find you on the Last Day?" Think about that. On the Day of Judgment, how will it be that you appear before God? Will you be found in your sin, or in your Savior? In Philippians, Paul says he has struggled and endeavored and yearned to gain Christ and be found in Him! Dressed in Christ's righteousness, not in his own filthy rags of iniquity.

If you want to be be found the same way it needs to be by faith, Paul says. That's how this righteousness of Christ comes to us. We may take sola fide lightly today because we are so far removed from the time of the Reformation and things like penance, indulgences, and hail Marys are not even on our radar. But no doubt other things are: status, connections, money, service projects, church affiliations... Do we let these things encroach in on the place that sola fide should have in our lives? That is, do we try to be found in these things? Flee it all and fly to Jesus! Faith alone is our hope. So "cast your deadly 'doing' down, down at Jesus' feet. Stand in Him alone, gloriously complete!"
