---
category: blog
layout: post
published: true
title: Be Killing Sin!
date: '2015-05-18'
---
	In his book The Mortification of Sin, John Owen has famously instructed, “Be killing sin or it will be killing you.”  This idea of mortification, or putting sin to death, used to be very popular during the time of the Puritans.  But it was hardly a novel concept.  Rather, the Puritans were merely recovering a very biblical teaching on the importance of fleeing and fighting sin.  Take the following few passages for example:
	“Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry” (Col 3:5). “Let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so closely” (Heb 12:1).  “Put off your old self, which belongs to your former manner of life and is corrupt through deceitful desires, and to be renewed in the spirit of your minds” (Eph 4:22–23).  “Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, to make you obey its passions” (Rom 6:12).  “Abstain from the passions of the flesh, which wage war against your soul” (1 Pet 2:11).  And, of course, these grave words from our Savior: “If your right eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body be thrown into hell. And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body go into hell” (Matt 5:29–30).
	Taken together the biblical data supports the Puritans’ mortification approach: we must not be passive in dealing with sin.  Rather, we must actively, intentionally, and viciously rout sin out of our lives.  How are we doing with that, friends?  It’s tough, isn’t it?  I think it is a common temptation to be so moved be the Good News of the Gospel and Christ’s finished work on our behalf that we think there’s nothing for us to do.  Not so.  It’s because Christ has defeated the powers of Hell that we may be enabled by the powers of Heaven to die unto sin and live unto righteousness (1 Pet 2:24).  We have been transferred from the domain of darkness into the Kingdom of Christ (Col 1:13), and that means it is God who now works in us both to will and to do according to His good pleasure (Phil 2:13).  So remember, being a Christian does not merely mean resting and reflecting in all that Christ has done—although it certainly means that!  But it also means we are compelled to now serve him in obedience and in gratitude.  We are not only freed from the condemnation of the law, but we are also freed from our inability to obey it.  And that's what fleeing and fighting sin will look like: obeying God’s commands.  This is the Spirit-empowered duty given to us.  
	So let us not be content with the sin that still has a grip on our life.  Let us not approach sin passively.  Rather, we should critically think on these passages in the days ahead and reflect on how seriously God’s Word takes the mortification of sin.  Then let us be honest with ourselves: what sin is weighing us down?  What sin still “clings so closely”?  It what areas does the “old man” still manifest itself?  We should prayerfully examine where sin is in our life, and then cut it off.  Rout it out.  Put it to death.  Remember Owen: be killing sin or it will be killing you! And remember Paul:  “For this is the will of God: your sanctification” (1 Thes 4:3).  Your friend and brother in Christ, Jonathan