---
category: blog
layout: post
published: true
title: Dealing with Change
date: '2016-07-13'
---
	When Kerri Ann and I moved to California, for several weeks I realized any time we went out to eat we would go to restaurants that we could have gone to on the East Coast.  That’s probably my fault.  I like what I like—why change?! Perhaps you know that feeling.  If so, change is hardly ever a welcome guest.  Have you ever gone pale at the thought of having to deal with change?  I wonder if our prophetic friend Daniel ever felt this way.  When the Babylonians captured the Israelites, Daniel went through a great deal of change – a new country, a new diet, a new language, and even a new name (Daniel, meaning “God is my judge,” was forced to be called Belteshazzar, meaning “Bel protect the king” – a blasphemous slap in the face to worshippers of Yahweh).  Admittedly, the changes that were thrust upon Daniel were likely much more severe and drastic than any we will face in life.  That being so, Daniel must have had an absolutely miserable time dealing with his new circumstances… right?  On the contrary, throughout the entire book, Daniel handles himself with respect, dignity, and repose.  
	How was he able to do this?  He was living in captivity and many of his family and friends were dead and gone, how was he able to maintain this peace when we fall apart at the seams at the first signs of variation in our life?  Quite simply, it is because Daniel anchored himself, not in fickle routines or capricious circumstances, but in an unmovable and unchanging God.  If you find yourself crippled by change, then you are probably not able to say this with Daniel.
	Daniel put his trust in a promise-keeping God.  The God who swore to his father Abraham, “I will make you exceedingly fruitful, and I will make you into nations, and kings shall come from you.  And I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be God to you and to your offspring after you” (Gen. 17:6-7).  Daniel was able to look back on the history of his people and see God keep His word time and time again.  He was so grounded in this God that even when his whole life was turned upside down he did not lose heart.  We can do the same—we can look back through the pages of Scripture and see how God has not changed, how he has kept His word.  We can see how He did indeed raise up a king from the line of Abraham – King Jesus, who lived and died for us.  King Jesus who is “the same yesterday and today and forever” (Heb. 13:8).  King Jesus who, no matter your earthly circumstances, will love you, guard you, guide you, and intercede for you.  Friends, when you experience difficult change, rather than stubbornly holding on to your routine or your comfort, humbly hold on to Jesus.  He will never change. _“When all around my soul gives way, he then is all my hope and stay.”_
