---
layout: post
category: blog
published: true
title: Reflections on Psalm 23
---
	“The Lord is _my_ Shepherd.”  Let those words of Psalm 23 sink in.  Perhaps they have become too familiar to you and the profundity has worn off, but they teach us a lot about our **personal God**.  That’s the message of the Bible: that Yahweh, the great I AM, entered into His creation and became Emmanuel, God with Us.  The message is that the infinite and the intimate have met.  And because of that, you are able to say that He is your shepherd, He is your pastor, He is your ever-caring caretaker.  He meets your particular and personal needs by leading you by still waters and settling you in green pastures.  What does this mean for you?  In a word, He meets your needs by giving you peace—spiritual peace.  Romans 5:1 tells us that because we have been justified—forgiven—we have peace with God.  Romans 8:1 tells us that we no longer have to fear condemnation.  Apart from our Good Shepherd we have no inner peace; instead our soul is in turmoil within us, condemning us for our many sins and at war with God at every turn.  But the still waters of salvation mean that the inner turmoil has been silenced.  We are at peace because we know that we have every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, namely, we have a personal God who loves us, who guides us, who cares for us.
	But notice that this psalm teaches us that even though we have a personal God, that does not negate the fact that we face a **perilous journey** in this life.  Verse 4 focuses on this when it says that we walk through the valley of the shadow of death.  What does it mean to walk through that valley?  It means dealing with the effects of sin (Rom 5:12). When someone hurts you and sins against you, you are walking through that valley.  When you wake up achy in the morning, you are walking through that valley.  Lies, anger, lust, cancer, depression—we only encounter these insofar as we pass through Shadow Death Valley.  
	We soon realize that we walk this valley every day!  We may be tempted to despair—but what’s our comfort?  It goes back to our personal God, doesn’t it?  We do not fear because our Good Shepherd is with us.  But He is not with us merely in the sense that he walks alongside us, cheering us on our way (though He is and that helps!).  He is with us primarily in the fact that He has walked this valley before—He has experienced it Himself.  In fact, our Good Shepherd has experienced it in a way that we never will have to: He tasted death itself.  We taste the _shadow_; our Good Shepherd tasted the _substance_.  He laid down His life for the sheep that we might never have to experience the sting of death.
	In fact, for us death is now but our entrance into glory.  It is our entrance into our **permanent home**, which is what Psalm 23 focuses in on in the final verses.  This is our encouragement as we trek through life: that we have a permanent home waiting for us on the other side.  We will dwell in the house of the Lord _forever_.  This idea of permanence is hard to wrap our minds around.  We live in a world so filled with uncertainty.  Truly, we do not know what each day will bring.  But not so in the home of our Good Shepherd.  There, we can have certainty.  We can have certainty that “death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain anymore” (Rev 21:4).  We can have certainty that we will dine at our Shepherd’s table, day in and day out, as beloved members of His family.  And until that time, we can also be certain that goodness and mercy will follow us all the days of our lives.  Actually, “follow” is a bit of a weak translation—goodness and mercy _pursue after_ us.  And no matter how hard we may try, we can never escape them.  They have been sent by our personal God to guide us through our perilous journey and bring us into our permanent home.  He who shepherds us is faithful, and He will surely do it. 
