---
category: blog
layout: post
published: true
title: Keep Calm and Carry On
date: '2016-06-22'
---
Remaining calm in the face of unpleasant or unplanned circumstances can be difficult.  Thats’s exactly what happened to the disciples in Matthew 8:23-27 when a terrifying storm came their way on the Sea of Galilee.  What can we learn about keeping calm and carrying on from this scene?

First, see how calm Jesus is. It does not go by unnoticed by most people that he is sleeping in the bottom of the boat while everyone on deck is fighting for their lives.  Jesus could sleep because the storm had nothing on Him, so to speak.  The storm was His, after all.  More than that, He trusted in His Father’s protection.  He rested in the knowledge that His Father’s will would be done, and a strong east wind and some rain could not thwart the plan of redemptive history.  In this way, we can say that Jesus himself had faith, and this is what he chides the disciples for lacking.  They panicked because they doubted the protection of God.  Peter would come to learn from this lesson, and in his later ministry he could sleep peacefully in his cell moments before execution (Acts 12).

Second, see the calm of the storm.  We don’t want to underestimate the ferociousness of the storm.  Many of the disciples were fishermen and would be used to squalls—this would have had to have been a big one to get them riled up.  Yet even this fierce tempest could be stilled by Jesus, and moreover, stilled simply by His word.  We see Jesus’ power equaled to that of YHWH, who could part seas and stop storms (Exodus 14, Jonah 1).  What things tend to make you panic and lose your calm?  Do you think if Jesus could still a vast body of water with a single word that He might also be able to still your anxious heart?

Finally, see the calm of the disciples.  Are you looking?  Can’t find it?  That’s because it’s not there.  The story begins with them terrified and ends with them terrified.  But notice how they are more afraid after the storm is stilled (other Gospel accounts make this point more clearly).  Why?  Because now they are afraid of Jesus—and rightly so!  They now understand the extend of Jesus’ power: even the wind and seas obey Him, for He has created them!  So they understood finally what Jesus would later go on to teach: “Do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell.”  In this story, the wind and seas and the disciples all recognize Jesus as Lord of the universe.  And the Lord of the universe is worth submitting to (like the sea) and worth revering (the disciples).  And when we are in his control, what reason is there to panic?  So despite whatever challenges or struggles you face, remember there is peace and rest for your fear-struck, weary souls in the loving arms of your Savior who can calm any storm!
