---
category: blog
layout: post
published: true
title: Thoughts on Orlando
date: '2016-06-15'
---
	Our nation awoke this Sunday morning to another tragedy: 49 killed in Orlando in one of the most horrific terrorist attacks America has ever seen.  Perhaps the word didn’t reach some of us until later.  I didn’t know about it until returning home after church.  However, hearing this news did shed some fresh light on that passage in Colossians 1: this tragedy is a picture of that domain of darkness that we have been delivered out of.  And yet, we still feel the effects of it, don’t we?  We still taste something of the shadow of that darkness.  What are we to make of the world in times like this?  How ought we to respond as Christians?
	It is tempting in times like these to get caught up in discussions of politics, civil rights, and religiosity.  And considering the differences we share with the particular people group that was targeted, we might even be tempted to think, “Well, they had it coming.”  But Christ wants none of this from us.  We are to mourn with those who mourn (Rom 12:15), and this includes our unbelieving neighbors.  And indeed, this is a time for mourning and weeping.  We mourn over the reality of sin and how it has so stained God’s good creation.  We mourn that nearly 50 image bearers of the Divine have been callously destroyed.  As Jesus mourned over the violence and the hard-heartedness of Jerusalem, we mourn over the same in our nation.  We mourn with God Himself over this tragedy, for He is “not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance.”  So we weep for those who died this past week without the hope of the Gospel, those who did not heed the summons of the Kingdom of Light.  We show the love of Christ when we show compassion to our hurting world.
	But more than a time for mourning, this is also a time for eager expectation.  We eagerly expect that this is not the end, that this is not all there is.  Yes, there will be horrific times like these, and certainly more to come.  We will “hear of wars and rumors of wars. But see that you are not alarmed, for this must take place, but the end is not yet.”  However, an end is coming.  An end when Christ will return, not in humility as before but in power.  He will be mounted on a white steed leading the armies of Heaven and indeed coming to make war.  But this war is a war we long for.  It is a war that will end all wars.  A war that will destroy destruction.  A war that will make peace.  And then what?  Well, then “He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more, neither will their be mourning, nor weeping, nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away” (Rev. 21:4).  As we eagerly expect this coming reality, may we point those who are heavy in heart and hopeless in the world to this comforting truth.  It is a truth, friends.  “He who testifies to these things says, ‘Surely I am coming soon.’ Amen. Come, Lord Jesus!” (Rev. 22:20).

Your friend and brother in Christ,
Jonathan 